Improvement/dtm guide (#473)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/dtm/asset-types-bundle/asset-types.md

---
weight: 20
title: Asset types
layout: redirect
---

> **Asset type** is a blueprint or template to create [Assets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#assets). **Asset type** defines how the asset will look like, when created. Using a single asset type, multiple instances of assets can be created. But every asset belongs to only one **Asset type**, it cannot have multiple asset types as the source template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Asset type** is a blueprint or template to create [assets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#assets). **Asset type** defines how the asset will look like, when created. Using a single asset type, multiple instances of assets can be created. But every asset belongs to only one **Asset type**, it cannot have multiple asset types as the source template.
```

> **Asset type** consists of one or more [Custom properties](/dtm/asset-types/#property-library). Once the asset type is created, it can be used to create various different assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Asset type** consists of one or more [custom properties](/dtm/asset-types/#property-library). Once the asset type is created, it can be used to create various different assets.
```

To reach the **Asset type** page, nagivate to **Configuration > Digital Twin Library > Asset types**.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> By default only the **Asset type** **Group** is present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default only the asset type **Group** is available.
```

{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> Once you create the **Asset type**, you can see the details to that **Asset type** in the **Asset types** overview (see image below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you create an asset type, you can see the details for this asset type in the **Asset types** overview.
```

![Asset Type overview](/images/dtm/asset-type/dtm-asset-type-view.png)

In the overview you see the following four categories:
*	**Asset type**: Name of the **Asset type**
*	**Key**: Unique identifier for the **Asset type**
*	**Description**: Brief description of the **Asset type**
*	**Last update**: Date and time of when the **Asset type** was last created or updated

Click **Configure columns** to configure the displayed columns.

> If you want to reload the screen, click on **Reload**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to reload the screen, click **Reload**.
```

> ##### Creating a new Asset type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating a new asset type
```

> If you want to add a new **Asset type**, click **Add asset type**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a new asset type, click **Add asset type**.
```

Reviewer: Perhaps add where the button is

>  ![assettype-create-new](/images/dtm/asset-type/dtm-asset-type-create-new.png)

Reviewer: screenshot probably not relevant

> To create a new **Asset type** you have to fill out the following six attributes:```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide the following six attributes:
```

> *	**Label**: This information is mandatory. It refers to the name of the **Asset type**. The **Asset type** is further addressed using the information provided here.

Reviewer: Make this a table

> *	**Key**: This information is mandatory. It uniquely identifies the **Asset type**. Note that **Key** can only contain letters and numbers, no special characters or space are allowed.

Reviewer: This is old formatted as code. Please remove the ticks further above

>     You can enter a brief description for the **Asset type** or choose to leave it blank.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> *	**Description**: This information is optional. It offers a brief description of the **Asset type**.

Reviewer: Use a 3 column table with a "mandatory" column and remove these sentences.

>      To choose an icon, click on **select icon** option on left, a pop-up window loads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> *	**Icon**: This information is optional. It is displayed against the label for each **Asset type**. By default no icon is selected. To select an icon, click **Select icon** on the left. This opens a dialog window where you can either search or filter icons by type or select an icon from the predefined list. Click **Save**. If you do not want to select an icon at this point, click **Cancel**. The dialog window closes automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*	**Icon**: This information is optional. It is displayed against the label for each **Asset type**. By default no icon is selected. Click **Select icon** and in the resulting window either search or filter icons by type or select an icon from the predefined list. 
```

Reviewer: Not sure what this means: It is displayed against the label for each **Asset type**.

     You can either search, or filter by type or simply scroll down and select an icon from the predefined list of icons provided.

     Select an icon and click on **Save**.

![assettype-icon](/images/dtm/asset-type/dtm-asset-type-select-icon.png)

>   If you don’t want to select any icon, click **Cancel**. You will be navigated back to “New asset type” page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ![Select an icon for the Asset Type](/images/dtm/asset-type/dtm-asset-type-select-icon.png)

Reviewer: Remove the image

> * **Child asset types**: This information is optional. It restricts the asset assignment to the defined types. If not set, then no child assets are allowed by default.  To add child asset types, click **Add child asset type**. You see a drop-down field where you can select the allowed **child asset type**. Repeat this process to select multiple **child asset types**. The selected **child asset types** are then displayed under **Allowed child asset types** with the checkbox **Required** on the right. Check the box if the **Asset type** must require this **child asset type**. By default this check box remains unchecked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Child asset types**: This information is optional. It restricts the asset assignment to the defined types. If not set, then no child assets are allowed by default.  To add child asset types, click **Add child asset type**. In the dropdown, select the allowed child asset type. Repeat this process to select multiple child asset types. The selected child asset types are then displayed under **Allowed child asset types** with the checkbox **Required** on the right. Check the box if the asset type requires this child asset type. By default this check box remains clear.
```

5. Child Asset types: Setting child asset types restricts asset assignment to the defined types. Otherwise, by default no child assets are allowed.

   On click of **Add child asset type** button, a dropdown gets displayed on screen. You can select allowed child asset types from this dropdown.
   On click of the dropdown, all the asset types get listed. You have to select the allowed types one by one.

>    Once child asset types are selected, it gets displayed in “Child asset types” section under “Allowed child asset types”. Against each row a **Required** check box will be present on right. By default this check box is disabled.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> If you want to disassociate the child asset from the selected **Asset type**, click the **Remove** icon next to the check box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to disassociate the child asset from the selected asset type, click the **Remove** icon next to the checkbox.
```

> If you do not select and check an **child asset types**, then the asset cannot have any child assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not select and check a child asset type, then the asset cannot have any child assets.
```

   If you check the **Required** checkbox, then during asset creation, addition of that child asset is mandatory.

   For each added child asset type, a **Remove** icon displayed on extreme right.

>    If you want to disassociate the child asset from asset type, click on the **Remove** icon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> If one or more **child asset types** are checked as required, an asset created with this **Asset type** can have only child assets belonging to the selected **child asset types**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If one or more child asset types are selected as required, an asset created with this asset type can have only child assets belonging to the selected child asset types.
```

>    If “building” is an **Asset type** and you select "floor" as an allowed child asset type, then the newly created asset “SAG Building” can only have "floor" assets as its child assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If “building” is an asset type and you select "floor" as an allowed child asset type, then the newly created asset “SAG Building” can only have "floor" assets as its child assets.
```

   Allowed child asset types is an optional field. If no child asset types are mentioned, then the asset cannot have any child assets.
   If one or more child asset types are allowed, then when creating the asset, it can have child assets belonging to only the selected child asset types.

   **Example:**

   If “building” is an **Asset type** and allowed child asset type is chosen as "floor" asset type, then when creating the asset “SAG Building”, it can have only floor assets as its child assets.

> 6. Custom properties: This is an optional field for **Asset type**. By default no custom properties are selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Custom properties**: This information is optional. By default no custom properties are selected.

If you want to add custom property, click **Add custom property**. You see a drop-down field where you can select the existing **custom properties**. Select the desired **custom property**. Repeat this process to select multiple **custom properties**.
You can reorder the **custom properties** via drag and drop. 

The selected **custom properties** are then displayed under **Custom properties** with the checkbox **Required** on the right. Check the box if the **Asset type** must require this **custom property**. By default this check box remains unchecked.
 
If you want to disassociate the **custom property** from **Asset type**, click the **Remove** icon next to the check box.
```

>    If you want to add custom property, click **Add custom property**.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> If you want to add custom property, click **Add custom property**. You see a drop-down field where you can select the existing **custom properties**. Select the desired **custom property**. Repeat this process to select multiple **custom properties**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a custom property, click **Add custom property**and select an existing custom property from the dropdown. Repeat this process to select multiple custom properties.
```

> You can reorder the **custom properties** via drag and drop.

Reviewer: remove bold formatting from **custom properties** everywhere

> The selected **custom properties** are then displayed under **Custom properties** with the checkbox **Required** on the right. Check the box if the **Asset type** must require this **custom property**. By default this check box remains unchecked.

Reviewer: under **Custom properties** > here bold formatting and capital letter makes sense and must stay as this refers to the screen element

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The selected custom properties are then displayed under **Custom properties** with the checkbox **Required** on the right. Select the checkbox if the asset type requires this custom property. By default this check box remains clear.
```

> If you want to disassociate the **custom property** from **Asset type**, click the **Remove** icon next to the check box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the **Remove** icon next to the checkbox to disassociate the custom property from the asset type.
```

   On click, a dropdown is displayed and all existing custom properties are displayed.
   Choose the custom properties one by one.
   You also have the option to reorder the custom properties by dragging and dropping them.

   For each of the custom property chosen a **Required** check box is displayed on right. By default it is unchecked.
   If you enable the checkbox, then during asset creation the Custom property has to be defined.

   If you want to disassociate the custom property, click on the **Remove** icon against it.

>    You can also search for the custom properties by typing the name in the dropdown.

Reviewer 2: @MWindel continue here

> Once you have filled all mandatory fields you can click **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Save** to save your settings.
```

>    If the process was successful you see a pop-up notification iand are navigated back to the [Asset types](/dtm/asset-types/#asset-types) page.

Reviewer: Remove the sentence, this is obvious

>    If there are any validation issues for any of the fields, they will be highlighted in red and you will see a validation error message. You can then rectify the inputs and then click **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 In case of any issues (wrong or missing input)  the respective fields are highlighted and a corresponding error message is provided. 
```

>    If you want to cancel the operation, click **Cancel**. There will be no notification. Any inputs will be discarded.

Reviewer: Remove, not necessary

>    On click, a dropdown is displayed and all existing custom properties are displayed.

Reviewer: This sounds like a repetition of line 72 onwards?

   You also have the option to reorder the custom properties by dragging and dropping them.

   For each of the custom property chosen a **Required** check box is displayed on right. By default it is unchecked.
   If you enable the checkbox, then during asset creation the Custom property has to be defined.

   If you want to disassociate the custom property, click on the **Remove** icon against it.

   To search for specific **custom properties** type the respective name in the drop-down field.

   If you cannot find a specific **custom property**, click **New custom property**. In the following dialog window, you can fill out the necessary information. For more details see [Create new custom property](/dtm/asset-types/#create-new-custom-property).

   ![Add new custom property via asset types](/images/dtm/asset-type/dtm-asset-type-create-new-custom-property.png)

   Once the custom property is created, you can add this custom property in asset type being created.

    ![assettype-validation](/images/dtm/asset-type/dtm-asset-type-validation-error.png)

##### Creating an Asset type for the entire hierarchy

> To create an **Asset type** for the entire hierarchy, you need to first add all necessary [Custom properties](/dtm/asset-types/#property-library).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create an asset type for the entire hierarchy, you must first add all required [custom properties](/dtm/asset-types/#property-library).
```

> 

Reviewer: Remove empty row

Then [create the asset types](/dtm/asset-types/#creating-a-new-asset-type) in a bottom-up approach, so that all the child asset types are created first, followed by the root asset type at the end.

Once the root asset type is created, you can start [creating assets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#creating-assets-ui) for the entire asset hierarchy.

> By using this approach, you can create the desired hierarchy including all asset types, sub asset types and **custom properties**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using this approach, you can create the desired hierarchy including all asset types, sub asset types and custom properties.
```

> ##### Modifying an existing asset type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### To modify an existing asset type
```

> If you want to modify an **Asset type**, click the **edit** icon on the right side of each **Asset type**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify an asset type, click the **edit** icon at the right of the respective asset type.
```

> Modify the required fields in the dialog window and click **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the editor, make your changes and click **Save**.
```

> On successful save, you will see a success pop-up notification.```

Reviewer: Remove.

But add  a link to the section where the fields are explained.

> ##### Delete an existing Asset type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### To delete an asset type
```

> Use **Delete** to delete an existing asset type. There are two ways to delete an asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two methods to delete an asset.
```

> *	**Delete each asset type individually**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Delete each asset type individually**
```

  On the **Asset types** page, hover over an **Asset type** to see the **Delete** icon displayed on right.

>   Click **Delete** and you will see an additional confirmation pop up.

Reviewer: Remove

>   Click **Confirm** to delete the asset type. If you want to cancel the operation, click **Cancel**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the resulting dialog box, click **Confirm** to delete the asset type. 
```

> * **Delete the asset types in bulk**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Delete the asset types in bulk**
```

> On the **Asset types** page, you can see a checkbox next to each **Asset type**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the **Asset types** page, select one or more asset types by selecting the corresponding checkboxes.
```

> Select the checkboxes to delete the asset types. You have the option of deleting one or multiple asset types by using the **Delete option** on the top.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the **Delete option** at the top.
```

> Click **Delete** to delete the selected asset types and click **Confirm** on the confirmation pop up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Delete** to delete the selected asset types and click **Confirm** in the confirmation dialog box.
```

> Click **Cancel** to cancel the operation.

Reviewer: Remove

> Once the **Asset type** is deleted, a success pop up notification gets displayed on the right.

Reviewer: Remove

> You also have the option of sorting the columns using the **Sort** option for the respective columns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To sort columns hover over the respective column and click the sort icon.
```

Reviewer: Not sure how this looks like. Probably an arrow? The it should be "the arrows" instead of "the sort icon".

> {{< c8y-admon-info>}}

Reviewer: Remove this admonition, not sure why this sentence is in an info box?

Hover over a column to see the **Sort** option.
{{< /c8y-admon-info>}}

> If you want to filter asset types based on text, us the **Filter** option.

Reviewer: Remove

> {{< c8y-admon-info>}}

Reviewer: Same here, remove

> Hover over a column to see the **Filter** option.

Reviewer: To filter asset types, hover over the respective column to display the filter option.

Reviewer: How exactly does this look like? Do I select a filter or do I add something?

> To clear any applied filters use the **Clear filters** option on the top.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To clear all applied filters click**Clear filters** at the top.
```

Reviewer: Not sure if this is correct, please check in the UI

> You can see the total number of asset types on the bottom left of the page. To change the number of entries per page use the **Items per page** drop down option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The total number of asset types is displayed at the bottom left of the page. To change the number of entries per page use the **Items per page** dropdown.
```

> Once all the required **Asset types** are created, you can start creating [**Assets**](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#assets) using these asset types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once all required asset types are created, you can start creating [assets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#assets) using these asset types.
```

#### Root asset type

> To create a root asset type follow a bottom-up approach by defining all subassets and custom properties in the provided template first. This root asset type can then be used to create an asset hierarchy, which then (?) defines all the assets, subassets, custom properties and devices in the DTM. As a result you can use the asset hierarchy in other {{< product-c8y-iot >}} applications, such as the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} OEE or the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Machine Portal.

Reviewer: Machine Portal > Does not exist so far

> DTM also provides a Localization feature, where you can customize and display the translation for certain content. See [ADD HYPERLINK TO TRANSLATIONS HERE]().

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DTM also provides a localization feature, where you can customize and display the translation for certain content. See [ADD HYPERLINK TO TRANSLATIONS HERE]().
```

---
weight: 20
title: Asset types
layout: redirect
---

The asset type is a blueprint or template to create [assets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#assets). An asset type defines how the asset will look like when created. Multiple assets can be created through one single asset type. An asset type consists of one or more [custom properties](/dtm/asset-types/#property-library).

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
While every asset belongs to only one asset type, it cannot have multiple asset types as the source template.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> To reach the **Asset type** page, nagivate to **Configuration > Digital Twin Library > Asset types**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reach the **Asset types** page, nagivate to **Configuration > Digital Twin Library > Asset types**.
```

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> By default only the asset type **Group** is available.

Reviewer: I would probably remove the admonition here, to avoid too many info boxes.

{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

When you create an asset type, you see the details for this asset type in the **Asset types** overview.

![Asset Type overview](/images/dtm/asset-type/dtm-asset-type-view.png)

In the overview you see the following four categories:

*	**Asset type**: Name of the asset type
*	**Key**: Unique identifier for the asset type
*	**Description**: Brief description of the asset type
*	**Last update**: Date and time of when the asset type was last created or updated

Click **Configure columns** to configure the displayed columns.

Click **Reload** to reload the screen.

### To create a new asset type

> Click **Add asset type** on the top right to add a new asset type. This opens the **Building Asset Type** page (see image below).

Reviewer: Building Asset Type > Building asset type ?

 ![Building Asset Type page](/images/dtm/asset-type/dtm-asset-type-create-new.png)

> To create a new asset type you must fill out the following six attributes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide the following six attributes:
```

<table>
<col width="20">
<col width="60">
<col width="20">
<thead>
<tr>
<th style="text-align:left">Field</th>
<th style="text-align:left">Description</th>
<th style="text-align:left">Mandatory / Optional</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left"><b>Label</b></td>
<td style="text-align:left">Refers to the name of the asset type. This name is used for the asset throughout the application.</td>

> <td style="text-align:left"><b>Mandatory.</b></td>

Reviewer: I would not use a full stop here and below, looks weird

</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left"><b>Key</b></td>
<td style="text-align:left">Used to uniquely identify and store the asset type in the DTM.</td>
<td style="text-align:left"><b>Mandatory.</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left"><b>Description</b></td>
<td style="text-align:left">Provides a brief description of the asset type.</td>
<td style="text-align:left"><b>Optional.</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left"><b>Icon</b></td>
<td style="text-align:left">Displayed next to the label for each asset type. By default, no icon is selected. </td>
<td style="text-align:left"><b>Optional.</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left"><b>Child asset types</b></td>
<td style="text-align:left">Restricts the asset assignment to the defined types. By default, no child assets are allowed if this field is not set.</td>
<td style="text-align:left"><b>Optional.</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left"><b>Custom properties</b></td>

> <td style="text-align:left">By default, no custom properties are selected.</td>

Reviewer: Description is missing

<td style="text-align:left"><b>Optional.</b></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

> Once all the required asset types are created, you can start creating [assets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#assets) using these asset types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once all required asset types are created, you can start creating [assets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#assets) using these asset types.
```

> The total number of asset types is displayed on the bottom left of the page. Use the **Items per page** drop down option to change the number of entries per page .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The total number of asset types is displayed on the bottom left of the page. Use the **Items per page** drop down option to change the number of entries per page.
```

#### To select an icon

To select an icon, click **Select icon** on the left. In the following dialog window you can either search or filter icons by type or select an icon from the predefined list. Select the desired icon and click **Save**.

#### To add a child asset type

> Click **Add child asset type** to add a new child asset type. In the following drop-down select one or multiple allowed child asset type. The selected child asset types are then displayed under **Allowed child asset types** with the checkbox **Required** on the right. If the asset type must require this child asset type, check this box. By default, this check box is unchecked. Click the **Remove** icon next to the check box to remove the child asset from the selected asset type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Add child asset type** to add a new child asset type. In the dropdown select one or multiple allowed child asset types. The selected child asset types are then displayed under **Allowed child asset types** with the checkbox **Required** on the right. If the asset type requires this child asset type, select the checkbox. By default, it is clear. Click the remove icon next to the checkbox to remove the child asset from the selected asset type.
```

{{< c8y-admon-info>}}
If you do not select and check a child asset type, then the asset cannot have any child assets.
{{< /c8y-admon-info>}}

If one or more child asset types are checked as required, an asset created with this asset type can have only child assets belonging to the selected child asset types.

**Example:**

If the asset type is "Building" and you select "Floor" as an allowed child asset type, then the newly created asset "SAG Building" can only have "Floor" assets as child assets.

#### To add a custom property to an asset type

> Click **Add custom property** to add a new custom property to the asset type. On the following page, select one or multiple custom properties from the drop-down field. To search for specific custom properties type the respective name in the dropdown field. The selected custom properties are then displayed on the **Custom properties** segment with the checkbox **Required** on the right. If the asset type must require this custom property select this checkbox. By default this checkbox remains empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Add custom property** to add a new custom property to the asset type. In the resulting dialog box, select one or multiple custom properties from the dropdown field. To search for specific custom properties type the respective name in the dropdown field. The selected custom properties are then displayed on the **Custom properties** segment with the checkbox **Required** on the right. If the asset type requires this custom property select the checkbox. By default, it remains empty.
```

Reviewer: Checkboxes are usually selected and cleared. Not sure about the "empty" here, but "clear" also sounds strange. Please decide for one option and unify. Heads up, it is checkbox in one word.

You can reorder the custom properties via drag and drop.

> To remove the custom property from the asset type, click the **Remove** icon next to the check box.

Reviewer: **Remove** icon > We do not format icon names as bold as long as the names are not visible in the UI. It is "the remove icon", i.e. also not capitalized.

Click **Save** to save your settings.

{{< c8y-admon-info>}}
If there are any validation issues with a field, it is highlighted in red with a validation error message asking you to fill in the required information. Enter the necessary information and click **Save**.
{{< /c8y-admon-info>}}

> If you cannot find a specific custom property, click **New custom property**. For more details on how to create a new custom property see [Property Library > To create a new custom property](/dtm/asset-types/#create-new-custom-property).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is no custom property meeting your requirements, click **New custom property**. For more details on how to create a new custom property see [Property Library > To create a new custom property](/dtm/asset-types/#create-new-custom-property).
```

### Root asset type

To create a root asset type follow a bottom-up approach by defining all subassets and custom properties in the provided template first. This root asset type can then be used to create an asset hierarchy, which then (?) defines all the assets, subassets, custom properties and devices in the DTM. As a result you can use the asset hierarchy in other {{< product-c8y-iot >}} applications, such as the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} OEE or the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Machine Portal.

> DTM also provides a Localization feature, where you can customize and display the translation for certain content. See [ADD HYPERLINK TO TRANSLATIONS HERE]().

Reviewer: Not sure why this sentence is here?

### To create an asset type for the entire hierarchy

> To create an asset type for the entire hierarchy, first add all necessary [custom properties](/dtm/asset-types/#property-library). Then [create the asset types](/dtm/asset-types/#creating-a-new-asset-type) in a bottom-up approach. This way all the child asset types are created first, followed by the root asset type at the end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create an asset type for the entire hierarchy, first create all required [custom properties](/dtm/asset-types/#property-library). Then [create the asset types](/dtm/asset-types/#creating-a-new-asset-type) in a bottom-up approach, that is, all child asset types are created first, followed by the root asset type at the end.
```

> Afterwards, you can start creating assets for the new asset hierarchy. For more details on how to create assets see  [create assets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#creating-assets-ui)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Afterwards, you can start [creating assets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#creating-assets-ui) for the new asset hierarchy. 
```

> Using this approach, allows you to create the desired hierarchy including all asset types, subasset types and custom properties in one process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach allows you to create the desired hierarchy including all asset types, subasset types and custom properties in one process.
```

> ### To modify an existing asset type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### To modify an asset type
```

> To modify an asset type, click the **Edit** icon on the right side of each asset type.

Reviewer: **Edit** icon > edit icon

Modify the required fields in the dialog window and click **Save**.

> On successful save, you will see a success pop-up notification.

Reviewer: Remove

### To delete an asset type

Click **Delete** to delete an existing asset type. There are two ways to delete an asset.

> 1.	Delete each asset type individually

Reviewer: Numbered lists should only be used for procedures. It is not first step, second step here, which is confusing

> On the **Asset types** page, hover over the desired asset type to see the **Delete** icon displayed on the right. Click **Delete** and click **Confirm** on the confirmation pop-up window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the **Asset types** page, hover over the desired asset type and click the delete icon.
```

> On the **Asset types** page, hover over the desired asset type to see the **Delete** icon displayed on the right. Click **Delete** and click **Confirm** on the confirmation pop-up window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the **Asset types** page, hover over the desired asset type and click the delete icon.
```

2. Delete the asset types in bulk

> On the **Asset types** page, select the checkbox next to the desired asset type. Click **Delete** to delete the selected asset type and click **Confirm** on the confirmation pop-up window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the **Asset types** page, select the checkboxes next to the desired asset types. Click **Delete** to delete the selected asset types.
```

Reviewer: Not sure how this looks like. Is there a delete button at the top for all rows?

Reviewer 2: Done.
Yes it is a field/button that is above the header columns.

> Once the asset type is deleted, you see a success pop-up notification gets on the top right of the screen.

Reviewer: Remove

Reviewer 2: Done

### To sort asset types

> Use the **Sort** icon in each column title to sort the different columns in the asset type overview. Hover over the selected column title for the **Sort** icon to appear on the right. Click the icon to sort the respective column either in a top-to-bottom or bottom-to-top approach.

Reviewer: **Sort** icon > probably "sort icon", I don´t know if the icons have labels?

> Use the **Sort** icon in each column title to sort the different columns in the asset type overview. Hover over the selected column title for the **Sort** icon to appear on the right. Click the icon to sort the respective column either in a top-to-bottom or bottom-to-top approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To sort columns, hover over the respective column header and click the sort icon for an ascending or descending order.
```

Reviewer 2: Done

### To filter asset types

> Use the **Filter** option to filter asset types based on text in the respective asset group. Hover over a column title for the **Filter** icon to appear on the right. Click the icon to filter the assets in this column.

Reviewer: I do not understand that. Which columns can be filtered? Is it:

To filter asset types, hover over a column header, click the filter icon and enter your search text.

Reviewer 2: The problem is, that I cannot recreate this process in any UI with DTM that I have access to. I have marked this down, and will check with the team at the end.

On successful save a success pop-up notification is displayed.

##### **Delete an existing Asset type**

**Delete** option is used to delete existing asset types. There are 2 ways to delete an asset.

*	**Delete each asset type individually:**

  In Asset types page, hover over an **Asset type**, **Delete** icon is displayed on right.

  Click on this **Delete** icon, an additional confirmation pop up is displayed.

  Click **Confirm** to delete the asset type.

  Click **Cancel** to cancel the operation.

* **Delete the asset types in bulk:**

Against each **Asset type**, checkbox is present in Asset types page.

Select the checkboxes against the asset types to be deleted. On Single or multiple selection, **Delete option** gets displayed on the top bar.

Click **Delete** to delete the selected asset types and click **Confirm** on the confirmation pop up.

Click **Cancel** to cancel the operation.

Once the **Asset type** is deleted, a success pop up notification gets displayed on the right.

Additionally you can sort the columns using the **sort** option against the respective columns.

> >**Info:** Sort option gets highlighted on hovering over the columns.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< c8y-admon-info>}}
Hover over a column to see the **Sort** option.
{{< /c8y-admon-info>}}
```

> If you want to filter asset types based on text, then **filter** option can be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to filter asset types based on text, us the **Filter** option.
```

> >**Info:** Filter option gets highlighted on hover against the columns.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< c8y-admon-info>}}
Hover over a column to see the **Filter** option.
```

> Applied filters can be cleared using the **Clear filters** option on top.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To clear any applied filters use the **Clear filters** option on the top.
```

> Number of asset types gets displayed on bottom left of the page. Number of entries in a page can be changed using the **Items per page** dropdown. Pagination is provided on bottom right of page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can see the total number of asset types on the bottom left of the page. To change the number of entries per page use the **Items per page** drop down option. 
```

Reviewer 2: @nupadhyaya what is meant by "Pagination is provided on bottom right of page."?

> Once all the required **Asset types** are created, [**Assets**](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#assets) can be created using these asset types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once all the required **Asset types** are created, you can start creating [**Assets**](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#assets) using these asset types.
```

---
weight: 20
title: Asset types
layout: redirect
---

The asset type is a blueprint or template to create one or multiple [assets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#assets). It defines how the asset will look like when created. An asset type consists of one or more [custom properties](/dtm/asset-types/#property-library).

To reach the **Asset types** page, navigate to **Configuration > Digital Twin Library > Asset types**.

By default only the asset type **Group** is available.

When you create an asset type, you see the details for this asset type in the **Asset types** overview.

![Asset Type overview](/images/dtm/asset-type/dtm-asset-type-view.png)

In the overview you see the following four categories:

*	**Asset type**: Name of the asset type
*	**Key**: Unique identifier for the asset type
*	**Description**: Brief description of the asset type
*	**Last update**: Date and time of when the asset type was last created or updated

Click **Configure columns** to configure the displayed columns.

Click **Reload** to reload the screen.

<a name="create-asset-type"></a>
### To create an asset type

> Click **Add asset type** on the top right to add a new asset type. This opens the **Building Asset type** page.

Reviewer 2: @nupadhyaya In this case we need to retake the screenshot, as it shows "Building Asset type" as the page title. Have edited the content accordingly.

> Click **Add asset type** on the top right to add a new asset type. This opens the **Building Asset type** page.

Reviewer 2: Done

 ![Building Asset Type page](/images/dtm/asset-type/dtm-asset-type-create-new.png)

Provide the following six parameters:

<table>
<col width="20">
<col width="50">
<col width="30">
<thead>
<tr>
<th style="text-align:left">Field</th>
<th style="text-align:left">Description</th>
<th style="text-align:left">Mandatory / Optional</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left"><b>Label</b></td>
<td style="text-align:left">Refers to the name of the asset type.<br>

> This name is used for the asset throughout the application.</td>

Reviewer 2: Done

> This name is used for the asset throughout the application.</td>

Reviewer 2: Done

This root asset type can then be used to create an asset hierarchy, which then defines all the assets, subassets, custom properties and devices in the DTM application.

As a result you can use the asset hierarchy in other {{< product-c8y-iot >}} applications, such as the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} OEE or the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Machine Portal.

<a name=""></a>
### To create an asset type for the entire hierarchy

1. Create all required [custom properties](/dtm/asset-types/#property-library).
2. Then [create the asset types](#create-asset-type) in a bottom-up approach, that is, all the child asset types are created first, followed by the root asset type at the end.
3. [Create assets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#create-asset) for the new asset hierarchy.

This approach, allows you to create the desired hierarchy including all asset types, subasset types and custom properties in one process.

<a name=""></a>
### To modify an asset type

1. Click the edit icon on the right side of each asset type.
2. Make your changes in the editor.
3. Click **Save**.

<a name=""></a>
### To delete an asset type

> There are two ways to delete an asset:

Reviewer 2: Done

*	**Asset type**: Name of the **Asset type**
*	**Key**: Unique identifier for the **Asset type**
*	**Description**: Brief description of the **Asset type**
*	**Last update**: Date and time of when the **Asset type** was last created or updated

Click **Configure columns** to configure the displayed columns.

If you want to reload the screen, click on **Reload**.

##### **Creating a new Asset type**

If you want to add a new **Asset type**, click **Add asset type**.

 ![assettype-create-new](/images/dtm/asset-type/dtm-asset-type-create-new.png)

To create a new **Asset type** you have to fill out the following six attributes:```

*	**Label**: This information is mandatory. It refers to the name of the **Asset type**. The **Asset type** is further addressed using the information provided here.

*	**Key**: This information is mandatory. It uniquely identifies the **Asset type**. Note that **Key** can only contain letters and numbers, no special characters or space are allowed.

*	**Description**: This information is optional. It offers a brief description of the **Asset type**.
    You can enter a brief description for the **Asset type** or choose to leave it blank.

> *	**Icon**: This information is optional. It is displayed against the label for each **Asset type**. By default no icon is selected. To choose an icon, click **Select icon** on the left. This opens a dialog window where you can either search or filter icons by type or select an icon from the predefined list. Click **Save**. If you do not want to select an icon at this point, click **Cancel**. The dialog window closes automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*	**Icon**: This information is optional. It is displayed against the label for each **Asset type**. By default no icon is selected. To select an icon, click **Select icon** on the left. This opens a dialog window where you can either search or filter icons by type or select an icon from the predefined list. Click **Save**. If you do not want to select an icon at this point, click **Cancel**. The dialog window closes automatically.
```

     To choose an icon, click on **select icon** option on left, a pop-up window loads.

>      You can either search, or filter by type or simply scroll down and select an icon from the predefined list of icons provided.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>      Select an icon and click on **Save**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

![Select an icon for the Asset Type](/images/dtm/asset-type/dtm-asset-type-select-icon.png)

  If you don’t want to select any icon, click **Cancel**. You will be navigated back to “New asset type” page.

> * **Child asset types**: This information is optional. It restricts the asset assignment to the defined types. If not set, then no child assets are allowed by default.  To add child asset types, click **Add child asset type**. You see a drop-down field where you can select the allowed **child asset types**. Repeat this process to select multiple **child asset types**. The selected **child asset types** are then displayed under **Allowed child asset types** with the checkbox **Required** on the right. Check the box if the **Asset type** must require this **child asset type**. By default this check box remains unchecked.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Child asset types**: This information is optional. It restricts the asset assignment to the defined types. If not set, then no child assets are allowed by default.  To add child asset types, click **Add child asset type**. You see a drop-down field where you can select the allowed **child asset type**. Repeat this process to select multiple **child asset types**. The selected **child asset types** are then displayed under **Allowed child asset types** with the checkbox **Required** on the right. Check the box if the **Asset type** must require this **child asset type**. By default this check box remains unchecked.
```

> If you want to disassociate the child asset from **Asset type**, click the **Remove** icon next to the check box.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to disassociate the child asset from the selected **Asset type**, click the **Remove** icon next to the check box.
```

>    On click of **Add child asset type** button, a dropdown gets displayed on screen. You can select allowed child asset types from this dropdown.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>    On click of the dropdown, all the asset types get listed. You have to select the allowed types one by one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

   Once child asset types are selected, it gets displayed in “Child asset types” section under “Allowed child asset types”. Against each row a **Required** check box will be present on right. By default this check box is disabled.  

>    If you check the **Required** checkbox, then during asset creation, addition of that child asset is mandatory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>    For each added child asset type, a **Remove** icon displayed on extreme right.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
